{:title "The Peoples of Rhenovaar"
 :layout :post
 :tags  ["rhenovaar","auxillary content"]
 :toc true}

## Forward

 The peoples of Rhenovaar are varied, their stories complicated, their histories deep. The continent was once easily traversable, the empires relatively peaceful, and borders more or less open. However, with the onset of the Mortal War, relations have become far more complicated. What was initially a conflict between human empires, has escalated to involve nearly all inhabitants of Rhenovaar, even if only indirectly. From fields to forests, mountains to seas, deserts to tundras, a pall has fallen over Rhenovaar. With 23 years of constant war, a whole generation of mortals has come to know nothing but continuous devastation, and even the more ageless denizens of Rhenovaar now take notice of the once simply curious conflicts of humans, if they are not already directly involved. 

 Below we outline new contextualizations of the various D&D races, adjusted for their regions, languages, allegiances, and relations with others. In wartime, where you come from, how you speak, how you appear, all matters in ways they previously did not.

## Humans

 Humans are the most numerous of races inhabiting the continent of Rhenovaar. Their shorter lifespans, their tendency to organize into structured communities, and their natural flexibility makes them uniquely suited to any climate. The sheer number of humans is matched by their distinctiveness in languages, culture, and appearance.

 There are six human nations, each that grew out of a nationalism centered on language or ethnicity, as well as several other loose groups, and ethnicities.

### Brost

One of the original belligerents in the war, Brost is composed of really composed of several ethnic regions united together: Brosticshe, Stettlenden, and Rhinengen. While Brost had previously been ruled by a long Brostishe line, in recent decades, Rhinengen families, through some degree of cunning, have been able to assert themselves as the political elite of Brost. Commoners in Brost typically speak Brostische, while those from Rhinengen speak a somewhat sharper dialect, Riefen. Although mutually intelligible, formal Riefen has a stricter grammar. Brost is ruled by its king, Kaizer Foskur dar Rhinengen.

### Endguard

The second original belligerent in the war, Endguard is essentially ethnically homogeneous, having been one of the first human nations to unite from a collection of dukedoms to a single empire. Endguard borders Darkva to the north, Brost to the east, Chežida to the south, and the western sea. They have a non-aggression pact with with Brost. Endguard is ruled by its king Wilhelm Verdanser.

### Darkva

The third original belligerent in the war, Darkva is a vast northern nation that stretches almost entirely from the upper east to west of the continent. Darkva is composed primarily of ethnic Darkvaki, with their major settlements being towards the west. However, the east of Darkva is made of its great tundra, and southerly steppe. This steppe is the home of a nomadic ethnicity, the Shuri. The Shuri agreed to participate in the war with the Darkvaki one year into the conflict. Darkva is ruled by its empress, Konstenina, and is administered through a mageocratic military police.

### Łödz

Łödz is a nation surrounded on all sides by mountain ranges. Although once the mountain passes to Łödz were traversable, either by neglect or forgetfulness, many of those passes have been rendered impassible or were simply forgotten. These days, little of known of Łödz.

### Chežnida

### Himla

### Principalities

Along the eastern coast of Rhenovaar, on the other side of the Erlin mountain range, are the various Principalities: loose communities of sea traders. Distant from the locus of the war itself, the numerous captains of the Principalities saw fit to begin selling their services as privateers, mercenaries, or assassins. Among the Principalities, whatever the term may politically mean, is one of the few places were numerous languages can still be heard at once, but this phenomena stems more from a business reality than some type of open-minded communalism. 

## Elves

 For the first several years of the Mortal War, Elves remained aloof and detached in their forest and high mountain enclaves. It had always been taken as fact that their long lives and detached sentiments towards the conflicts of the mortal races gave them a particular objectivity. When conflicts had taken place near their lands in the past, Elves would defend their borders and wait for the resolve of factions to splinter. Changes in the demeanor and policy of Elves to the mortal races changed slowly, but would now look starkly different today as it did 23 years ago. The two elven empires that inhabit vast woodland domains closest to the human nations, the Sïndar and Illandïr, now jealously guard their borders. While they previously would only rebuff intruders from their borders, they now will indiscriminately shoot to kill from their hidden perches, along the full perimeter of their vast forests. It has been many years since many a human has seen an elf, much less ventured into one of the fabled elven arboreal cities. Of late, there is some reason to believe that the two "low Elven empire" may be directly participating in the Mortal War. To what extent is not very well known.

 The third Elven nation, the Chandra Elves, prefer climes more mountainous than temperate. They live among forests of tall evergreens that grow among craggy foothills, and their remoteness is as much a character trait as it is a geographic reality. Of the three elven races, the Chandra elves have been the least seen. While the Sïndar and Illandïr are more consistently affected by the conflicts among humans, from their high enclaves, Chandra elves hold the greatest conviction that the Mortal War will end well within their especially protracted lifetimes. Their confidence in their mastery over magic leads them to believe their lands will remain well protected. Given the difficulty in reaching their high homeland, outright conflict between mortal races and the Chandra Elves is less known. 

### Sïndar

 The Sïndar Elves inhabit the great Sïndarlewen, a western forest. Near the forest's ancient heart, stories hold that the elves have made their homes in the trunks of great oaks now turned to stone. The Sïndar speak Fëndwey, the language of Elves, which possesses its own script Fëndweyli. A Sïndar elf is typically a few inches shorter than a human of the same gender. Their skin tone is similar to that of the oaks of which their forest is composed, anywhere from a light brown, to rustic tan, and their eyes a similar green to leaves. 

 With the mortal races, Sïndar have maintained a relatively neutral disposition. When encountered in their lands, Sïndar have been known to allow an explanation to preempt execution, and there are some ethnic Sïndar who already lived outside the forest nation who have not returned. Racially, Sïndar are as [High Elves](http://www.dandwiki.com/wiki/SRD:Elves,_High_(Race)). 

### Illandïr

 Illandïr inhabit the Illandïrlewen, a northwestern forest. In comparison to their kin, they have a greater tendency towards militancy within their forested nation, and they routinely assert sovereignty over lands around it, which has recently led to increasing conflict between them and other mortal races. Even before the war, Illandïr guarded their homeland vociferously, and rarely even traded with other races besides gnomes or half-elves. Illandïr also speak Fëndwey. They are lighter in skin than their southern cousins, and often have brown or gold eyes.

 When an Illandïr elf is encountered beyond their forests, a cheerful conversation, if any at all, is rare to follow. Of humans, Illandïr are particularly disdainful. Other races they regard as obstructions in one way or another. Racially, Illandïr are as [Wood Elves](http://www.dandwiki.com/wiki/SRD:Elves,_Wood_(Race)). 

 ### Chandra Elves

 Chandra Elves inhabit the Yonderlörn. A tall, misty, forested mountain range to the east. While they too speak Fëndwey, it is what they consider be a high form of the language, linguistically preserved over time through tradition and the careful practice of magic. For this reason, among others that become more obvious upon meeting a Chandra elf, they are considered the most detached of races in Rhenovaar.

 Among other races, Chandra elves have a distant disposition. When a Chandra elf "comes down", so to speak, to interact with other races, they typically have some kind of motive, even if that motive is only to see more of the world. Chandra elves are particularly proficient at magic, having a practice that dates almost as far back to the draconic magic of the Silver Era.

 Chandra elves are taller than their kin, often two or three inches taller than a human of the same gender, but are typically more slender. Their skin is creamy, almost off-white, their hair typically silver or blue, and their eyes gold or violet. Racially, Chandra are as [Gray Elves](http://www.dandwiki.com/wiki/SRD:Elves,_Gray_(Race)).

## Dwarves

 The Dwarven clans, while racially really quite homogeneous, are defined more by the nuances in their historical trades. The composition of ores beneath their city-states defined the role they played with amongst their kin, and the other mortal races. Dwarves are united in their shared cultural heritage, despite living under different mountains, and by their mutual business interests. While each of the four dwarven clans speaks their own language, the same treaty that established their common defense also called for the extension of the "Mother Speech" into a fully, mutually comprehensible language, Hewen. These days, dwarves are less commonly seen on the surface than they once were. Stockier folk, with neutral standings as ensured by their business dealings, dwarves move more naturally in the human empires than elves. Besides common trade however, dwarven dealings these days are more often conducted by syndics and ambassadors, often only in the human capitals, and always behind closed doors. Special permits are necessary to travel through the underground dwarven lands.

 Dwarves always speak Hewen, their clan language, and often a third trade language.

### Folder Dwarves

 The most cosmopolitan of dwarves (which among the standards of humans is really quite exceptionally conservative), the Folder clan was founded above mines of diverse composition: copper, iron, and gold. They have business dealings with nearly all the human states, and even with the Sïndar elves on occasion. In the time of the war however, Folder has drastically reduced freedom of movement for non-dwarves on its borders. Their clan language is Folden.

### Gelter Dwarves

 Gelter dwarves established their city-state above a seemingly endless vein of gold, silver, and gemstones, and as a natural consequence, their business dealings tend more towards the financial. It is suspected all the human kingdoms currently at war hold some amount of debt to the Gelter dwarves, although the truth of this matter would certainly not be public knowledge. They tend to be more stand-offish or untrusting than their kin. Their clan language is Gelten.

### Molder Dwarves

 Molder dwarves established their city-state above lodes of iron, copper, zinc, and tin, and in close proximity to an active volcano. Molder dwarves produced metal goods of brass, bronze, and iron. Stories hold that the Molder foundries make use of volcano to perform their metalwork. Molder dwarves are gruff. While they do appear on surface, it is usually in the capacity as seasonal traders. Their clan language is Moldish.

### Sooter Dwarves

 Sooter dwarves established their city-state above enormous veins of coal. As the war approached, Sooter dwarves dug out greater and greater sums of coal to fuel human industry in addition to that of their kin. Like Molder dwarves, Sooter dwarves are often reticent. Their clan language is Sooten.

## Gnomes

 For player-characters in Rhenovaar, gnomes are an restricted race. Before the war, settled communities of gnomes could be found in most of the human nations, and traveling gnomes typically moved freely between them all. Unlike the Dwarves or Elves, up until before the war, gnomes had never held a nation of their own, nor did they seem to express any keen interest. Some three years prior, however, news quickly spread of a reuniting of the Gnomish diaspora, in the declared nation of Zindabad, beyond the vast southern desert. To the surprise of the other races, many gnomes seemed to suddenly uproot and leave. Now it has been over two decades since a gnome was seen in human lands, and given the expansiveness of the Thar, the desert beyond which they purportedly live, no one knows what has become of them. 

 Intriguingly, their influence has become increasingly visible. Racially quite proficient in magic and enchantment, it would seem in the present day, gnomes have begun to produce armaments of war with greater and greater craftsmanship. Swords, armor, even naval vessels, all bearing the mark of the Zindabadi gnomes, have become more prevalent in the ownership of all the belligerent human nations. Events surrounding the founding of Zindabad, in a land many thought uninhabitable, their ascendance as traders, their deep secrecy, are all shrouded in numerous layers of opaque mystery.

## Halflings

Like gnomes, halflings prior to the war had never founded their own nation, and even after the war, they maintain an essentially nomadic or itinerant lifestyle. Most major human capitals have some number of halflings, sometimes in service roles. In the southeast, halfling nomads live in hunting communities. As they go largely unseen by other races, halflings have maintained essentially neutral relations. This is not to say however, that the broader war has no effect on them or their communities. 

## Half-Elves, Half-Giants, Half-Orcs

 These are the so-called "fringe races". Before the war, the mixed races were common in all human nations, but during the war, being without any clear affiliation is definite cause for distrust, if not worse.

### Half-Elves

 Among Sïndarin, half-elves certainly have more opportunity for acceptance than regular humans. Illandïr, however, hold half-elves in contempt. 

### Half-Giants

 Half-giants most often hail from the icy north. Preceding the war, efforts by the Dar'kvaki drove them southerly. Half-giants are typically solitary, their mountain and hill communities fragmented, perhaps even beyond repair. [Half-giants](http://www.dandwiki.com/wiki/Half-giant) are as noted except without any psi-like abilities, and no level-adjustment. Half-giants, really more intelligent than they appear, will often speak Eldar, the language of the northern giants, as well as a regional language.
